I'm Lickie MacDonald and I'm in Holy Trinity Church, Llandudno, at the Longest Yard
and I'm going to speak to David Gosling.
And he's going to tell us about his father during the war.
Thank you, David.
Okay, yeah, my father, Peter Gosling, at the outbreak of war, he was too young to enlist,
so he was in the Home Guard in Essex with his father.
However, as soon as he was old enough, he enlisted.
He went to the recruitment station and he went through
and he was actually at the time working as a ticket clerk for the London North Eastern Railway at Colchester.
And so the recruiting people took one look at where he worked and put him in the engineers
and sent him to India to build a railway, even though he was a ticket clerk.
At the age of 20 in India and Burma, he reached the rank of Warrant Officer 2, which is quite high,
and he was put in charge of the second largest port in India.
There was then an occurrence where a battalion got caught behind Japanese lines
and contracted dysentery, so they actually became ineffective.
And the army looked for volunteers to go in on a boat up the river behind line to pick them up.
My dad volunteered and although he'd never been in charge of a boat in his life,
they made him the commander and he went downriver in the depths of night.
They rescued the battalion, they brought them out, and they did not lose a single man.
For that he was mentioned in dispatches.
That's a wonderful story. So he survived the war?
Yes, he survived the war. And it's one of those things when he was demobbed as a W.O.2,
but was instantly offered a commission, but he turned it down.
And he went and had a very, very good career in industry.
He rose to be the managing director of a very large national company.
But even to the end of his life, he always said he wondered what would have happened
had he taken the other path because he really, really loved the army.
So he might have stayed in the army?
Yeah, he was very tempted, yeah.
Yes. So he had an amazing walk career. Lovely that he was mentioned in dispatches.
So have you got his medals?
Yes, we have his medals and we take them to remember Sunday if we can
because I can wear them on the other breast.
And we've got details of his entry in the London Gazette.
It was typical of my father when he said that when he told the story,
which he didn't tell for many, many years,
and he said that technically he was behind enemy lines.
Well, if you're in India and Burma with the Japanese,
I don't think there's anything technical about it. You were.
So yeah, he was very unassuming about it, as I think most people were.
He sounds extraordinarily brave.
Yeah, and he said they were, I don't think there was a shot fired either.
They got in and got out without anybody noticing.
And they rescued all of them?
Every single one.
That is an amazing story, isn't it?
And he didn't tell it for most of his life?
Yeah.
Quite about it.
And in the end, he really only talked about it because his granddaughter
was doing a project for work, for school, and he wrote it all down.
And that's where we found it.
At least it's been written down.
Yeah.
You've kept that and maybe give it to some other...
I've sent copies of it to the Royal Engineers Museum.
Well, thank you very much indeed for that lovely and interesting story about your father.
And I'm glad he survived it.
He lived to 94, so...
Didn't do him any harm.
You may not have thought that at the time, but thank you very much indeed.
Thank you.
Thank you so much.